[Tomoyo] Tomoya, wake up.
[Tomoya groans] My stomach
hurts. I'm staying home.
[Tomoyo] You've already used
that excuse twice this week.
[Tomoya] You don't have
to come over every morning,
I keep telling you that.
[Tomoyo] I can't just
ignore the problem.
I'm your girlfriend.
This is my job.
[Tomoya] Let's break up.
That's not funny. Don't
even joke about that, okay?
Even if you're kidding,
it still makes me sad.
C'mon, don't give me that face.
I take it back.
Hey, today's the
day of the student
council elections, right?
This is no time to be down.
Yeah, you're right.
I'll give it my best.
[Students chatting]
[Tomoya] The results
be out soon.
Shouldn't you be back
in your classroom?
Maybe, but I feel
calmer here with you.
[Tomoya] It's been a month
since I started dating Tomoyo.
It wasn't really
planned or anything.
It just sort of happened.
When I first met her,
I was always cutting class.
Even when I did come to school,
I was late.
But somehow, after getting
to know her better...
not only did I start coming
to school on time...
I started falling in
love with her as well.
[Announcement chimes]
[Tomoya gasp]
[Girl on P.A.] Attention.
The results of the student
council election have
now been calculated.
The new student body president
is... Tomoyo Sakagami,
[Girl] winning with 533 votes.
[Tomoya] Wow! You did it,
Tomoyo!
I couldn't have done
it without your support.
Anyway, this is where
the real fight begins.
Getting elected is just the
first step in protecting
the cherry trees.
Don't worry, I know.
Tomoya, you'll stay with me
from now on too, won't you?
Wouldn't have it any other way.
Congratulations on
winning the election!
Hi, Sakagami! I'm so glad
you're the new president.
Thanks. That means a lot.
[Girl 1] We knew you could
do it! We'll always be
cheering for you!
The three of us make a
pretty weird combination,
[Youhei] don't you think?
[Tomoya] Hm?
Two senior slackers and
the president of the
student council?
It's like we're not even
living in the same world.
Those two are the biggest
punks in the school.
What are they doing hanging
around with Sakagami?
I have no idea. But she seems
to be on good terms with
them, at least.
Yeah... But she's
the president now.
You really think she'll show?
Of course she's gonna show.
She's come every other day,
hasn't she?
Pretty laid-back, aren't you?
[Tomoya] Why's that?
[Youhei] Just think for a sec.
She's the student council
president now.
She's gonna be way more
demanding of you than
she was before.
No running in the hallways.
Eat three meals with
lots of veggies,
and don't leave the
faucets running...
No way! I'm not ready
to grow up yet!
[Tomoyo] Hey, what's
with all the yelling?
Tomoyo! I'll show
you who's boss!
I'm gonna eat all my vegetables,
just you wait!
I never know what's
going on in his head.
Nothing.
I guess you're right, huh?
Don't agree with him!
[Tomoyo] I just came
by to drop these off.
I have a council meeting today,
so I'd better split.
[Tomoyo] See ya.
[Tomoya] Bye.
Look at that. Busy already.
[Tomoya] Guess so.
[Youhei] Hm?
That's nice. She made
lunch for me too.
Hehehe, now, let's try to
figure out which one is which.
Too obvious!
[Girl 1] What kind of
relationship does he
have with Sakagami?
I'm not sure, but they seem
pretty close. Don't you think?
[Girl 1] Don't tell
me they're going out?
[Girl 2] Ah, no way! Hey, shh!
What're you punks looking at?!
She's late. What's her deal?
It's no surprise, since she
was busy at lunch, too.
Oh well, I'll wait a
little bit longer.
[Youhei grumbles softly]
[Announcements chime]
[Tomoyo over P.A.] Um, Tomoya...
I'm sorry, but go on
home without me.
[Tomoya] It's Tomoyo!
[Tomoyo] I forgot that I have
a School Festival meeting today.
[Tomoyo] We're running behind,
so it'll probably be late in
[Tomoyo] the evening when
I get out. Anyway...
[Girl] Sakagami, the intercom
isn't for personal use!
[Girl] Turn it off!
[Tomoya] Uh...
[Tomoya sighs]
[Youhei laughs] That girl's
a real catch, Tomoya.
She's got balls of steel.
[Head Teacher] I hope it's not
true, but some students are
saying that you ran for
this position on a whim.
I took a look at your
records from the previous
school you attended.
I hate to say it Sakagami,
but it seems like you were
quite the troublemaker.
That's all in the past now.
Perhaps so. But that doesn't
change the fact that Sakagami
has caused a fair share of
controversy at this school too.
Please, don't misunderstand me.
I'm not trying to
tell you what to do.
However, considering that
you are our student
council president,
I think you should be both aware
and watchful of the situation.
[Tomoyo] Yes, sir.
[Tomoyo] It's okay, I don't
blame him for being concerned.
I know people are
gossiping about us.
And I had a feeling my old
school record would catch
up to me eventually.
But the point is to focus
on the future, not the past.
[Tomoyo] Right, Tomoya?
[Tomoya] Huh?
Yeah... yeah of course.
Right...
[Students chatting]
[Youhei] The School
Festival, huh?
I completely forgot
that was coming up.
Tomoyo said she'll be hard
pressed for time till it's over.
[Youhei] Let's find
something fun to do.
[Tomoya] Huh?
[Youhei] Take a break from
school. We could use one.
We'll find some place to
hang out on the way home.
You have time now, right?
C'mon, don't give me that face.
Once the school festival
is out of the way,
Tomoyo will have plenty
of time to spend with us.
Just us three,
no student council.
That would be nice, wouldn't it?
But if you ask me,
I'd be a lot happier
if I never had to
see her face again.
Hey, let's try talking
to those girls over there.
C'mon, look. The one with
the pony-tail's cute.
Hey, are you listening to me?!
Huh? He's gone...
[Tomoyo sighs]
[Tomoya] Must be hot in there.
Yeah... But...if they
find out where I am,
then they'll drag me back
to the council room.
Are you guys really that busy?
Yeah, I'm in the middle of
a campus patrol even now.
Don't stretch yourself
too thin, alright?
Oh, don't worry, I'll be fine.
Anyway, the reason I came here
was to spend some time with you.
I've been so busy with the
festival that I've hardly had
the chance to see you at all.
And once the school
festival is finally over,
I'll probably end up spending
all my time trying to preserve
the cherry trees.
Then thing might get even
worse than they are now.
That's why...
[Hiro] Sakagami!
[Tomoyo gasp]
I've been looking for you.
The chairs of the alumni groups
are waiting in the council room.
Please hurry back.
Can't you wait until I've
finished my ice cream
cone at least?
It'll only be a second.
We've made them wait for
thirty minutes already.
If we want to preserve
the cherry trees,
we won't be able to do it
without their support.
We can't afford to upset them.
I understand. I'm sorry.
It's okay, go give 'em hell.
I'll do my best.
You're Tomoya Okazaki,
aren't you?
Watch how you talk to your
upperclassman, kid.
Maybe you don't realize it,
but you've grown rather
famous lately.
Why's that? Because I'm
a good-for-nothing punk?
No, because you're Tomoyo
Sakagami's boyfriend.
There's something I've
been meaning to tell you.
I think you should stop
hanging around her.
Oh, I get it.
You're jealous, huh?
[Hiro laughs] Not at all.
[Tomoya] Hm?
[Hiro] I suppose you could
call it a "special interest".
To be blunt... I think she's
someone who can go far in life.
[Tomoya] Hm?!
She's earnest and hard
working... smart, too.
She's someone with a
tremendous amount of promise.
That's why she needs
to set her sights high.
The point is, you're
holding her back.
Everyone knows it's true.
You little punk!
You tryin' to pick a fight?!
You know it.
You know it too, don't you?
You can't help her. You can only
hold her back and hurt her.
I'm leaving now. I have to
help Sakagami with the
alumni meeting.
[Warning alarm dings]
[Head Teacher] Sakagami is very
gifted. She's popular as well.
And yet, she's friends with
you, her total opposite,
who frequently cuts classes
and rarely comes in on time.
And then, to make matters
worse, she used the school
intercom to contact you,
and abandoned her duties
as council president,
just to meet with you.
Do you understand
the situation now?
Might be hard to admit,
but the problems she's
caused are all related
to you, Okazaki.
[Tomoyo] Tomoya!
[Tomoya] Hm?
Hey!
What's up?
Sorry, but something
just came up.
Can you go on ahead?
Is it really going
to take that long?
I'm not sure, but probably.
Don't worry, I understand.
Thanks, I appreciate it!
[Hiro] All of this is
your fault, you know.
[Tomoya] Huh?
[Hiro] You know what's going on.
[Hiro] How Sakagami has made
it her mission to preserve
the cherry trees.
Yeah, I know. What about it?
One of the alumni we enlisted
for help heard some nasty
rumors about her.
Supposedly, one of the students
here caught Sakagami leaving her
boyfriend's house early in
the morning before school.
Huh? What does that matter?
She just comes by to wake me up.
But this is you
we're talking about.
People won't believe that.
Nasty rumors are
bound to crop up.
Sakagami is the Student
Council president.
She should serve as an example
to the other students.
If someone like that is
the subject of controversy,
it's going to be detrimental
to our cause.
You understand the situation,
don't you?
You realize what kind
of person she is...
and what kind of person YOU are.
[Warning alarm dings]
It wasn't much of an
emergency after all.
All it took was a little
meeting to clear up the
misunderstanding.
Anyway, it's all over now. Okay?
Ah... Stop spacing out,
you're making a mess.
[Tomoya] Tomoyo...
[Tomoyo] Huh?
[Tomoya] Let's break up.
I'm sorry, I just think it would
be better that way, all right?
I told you, don't even joke
about something like that.
You have goals
you need to reach.
Things you may not be able to
accomplish if you have me
holding you back.
Okay? So just-
No...
You can't!
[Tomoya] Tomoyo...
[Tomoyo] No way!
[Woman 1] Hear that?
[Woman 2] No, don't look,
it's embarrassing!
[Tomoyo] If you...
If you don't have me,
what are you going
to do with yourself?
If I'm not around... who's gonna
wake you up in the morning?
Who's gonna make
your lunch every day?
And if you have to study
for a test, then what?
And when... when you...
[Tomoya] I'll be fine.
I'll manage, okay? I'm sure
I can do fine on my own.
But you... you...
If you stay, then
before I know it,
I'll be dependent on
you for everything.
That's not good for anyone.
But I'm still in
love with you, Tomoya.
I can't lose you.
[Tomoya] Tomoyo...
What I felt for you...
wasn't love, all right?
I was... being selfish,
that's all.
Just forget about me
and live your dreams.
I'm just proud that I was able
to spend time with an amazing
person like you.
Let's leave it at that.
Please... Tomoyo.
[Tomoyo] I understand.
I'll do my best.
Thank you...
for going out...
with a girl like me.
I was happy.
Take care.
Hmmm... And here I thought you
two were gonna get married
after high school.
Sure'd be nice if
life was that simple.
But man, I always thought,
if she had to choose,
she'd at least have the
sense to pick you over
the Student Council.
Who knows?
Hey, now that you don't
have Tomoyo to hound
you all the time,
does that mean you're
gonna go back to your
old delinquent ways?
[Tomoya grumbles and groans]
[Teacher] All right.
So the next problem...
is just like example one.
[Girl] Did you hear?
Tomoyo placed fourth
in the national exams.
[Boy] Yeah, and she
got an award for her
volunteer work, too.
[Girl] She might become a
foreign exchange student, too!
I'm really gonna watch it, okay?
[Tomoya] Do whatever you want.
[Youhei] Fine. I just thought
you might not want to see it,
that's all.
Are you sure?
I said it's fine.
[Youhei] Alright.
For the sake of our memories,
we must protect these trees.
Not only the memories of past
generations, but the memories
[Tomoyo] that will be formed
by generations to come.
[Youhei] Huh? Where is she?
[Tomoya] Some international
conference about the
cherry trees.
[Tomoyo] We can't become so
wrapped up in our concept
of "progress"
that we destroy what
made us who we are.
Must be the same presentation
as the video.
[Tomoya] Yeah...
[Youhei] Kinda hard to
believe that we used to be
friends with such an
incredible girl, huh?
[Youhei] Hey...
[Tomoya] Hm?
Busy as usual.
Yeah...
[Tomoya laughs]
What's with your hair?!
Stop laughing! I have a tough
enough time just looking at
myself in the mirror!
But what was I supposed to do?
It's not like I could show up at
a job interview with blond hair.
Hmm.... I guess you
didn't fit their needs.
But don't give up. I'm
sure you'll find something.
There are plenty of
satisfying jobs out
there for you, I promise.
[Tomoya] The job
I finally found...
ended up being in this town.
It was a bit of a
disappointment.
I was hoping to be at
least one train stop away.
[Principal] Most of you
are going on to college,
and eventually, you'll become
an important part of society,
with a career of your own.
With that in mind...
[Principal trails off]
[Youhei] Seriously?
You mean you're leaving already?
The celebrations
aren't over yet.
[Tomoya] Yeah, but
I'm not interested.
I'll stop by your place later.
Okay.
[Tomoyo] How have you been?
What's wrong?
[Tomoyo] I've been
waiting for you.
I wanted to tell you something.
[Tomoyo] What?
[Tomoyo] These cherry trees
won't be cut down after all.
[Tomoyo] It was finally settled.
[Tomoya] I see.
[Tomoyo] It was a long fight...
[Tomoyo] but it was something
I couldn't give up on.
Now, it's finally happened.
You made your dream
come true, huh?
[Tomoya] But I lost something
important along the way.
Months I wanted to spend
with the person I love.
Time I can never have back.
I still love you, Tomoya.
I really do. In all this time,
I've only grown
to love you more.
How can you say that when we
haven't spoken in so long?
[Tomoyo] Maybe not, but I've
watched you all this time.
I've still been here with you.
Even without my help...
you managed just fine.
You always went to
class on time...
you worked hard every day
and you never gave up.
Yeah.
Although my lunches
weren't as good as yours.
It certainly wasn't easy...
but I looked for a job, too.
Of course, thanks to
my school record,
a lot of doors were closed
to me, but in the end,
I finally landed a position.
It's at a recycling plant.
A normal office job.
Well... and the place is
pretty close to here.
It's still inside town actually,
so there's no commute.
That's it, I guess.
Hey... what kind of things
did we use to talk about?
What did I say?
How did I laugh?
I can't seem to remember.
[Warning alarm dings]
[Tomoya] We're on two
separate paths now.
You'll graduate next year...
then you'll leave this
town and go far away.
You have the strength
to do that.
But I'm different.
All I can do is stay
here in this town.
In the same place, until I die.
That's the kind of person I am.
[Tomoyo] If you
can't go anywhere,
then I'll come to you.
I'll stay with you.
Buy why?
You don't have to stay trapped
in a miserable place like this!
Go to a good college,
meet wonderful people!
Set your dreams high
and make them come true!
You can aim higher than
this Tomoyo, much higher!
Don't waste your time
staying grounded with me!
[Tomoyo] Don't say any more.
I don't want to hear it,
all right?
I've already decided.
Getting good grades and
listening to teachers
can take me somewhere
high and far away...
but what if that's not
where I want to go?
Right here, by your side,
Tomoya...
is the only place I wanna be.
Who's the upperclassman here?
I'll come.
It's a bit late
to say this but...
but I'll follow,
wherever you go.
Tomoya...
[Tomoyo sobbing]
Tomoya!
Hey, come on.
It's no big deal, right?
Come on...
You don't have to cry.
It's okay...